content/projects/pebbble.md, before:

---
title: Pebbble
description: "A stone that carries voices across borders, walls, and the silence of separation."
date:
    published: 2025-01-27
thumbnail: /content/media/pebbble-hero.jpg
status: published
category: project
tags:
    - privacy
    - family
    - nfc
    - ipfs
    - voice
    - connection
project:
    status: in-progress
    timeline:
        start: 2024
---

# Pebbble

![A stone holds what screens cannot](https://picsum.photos/seed/pebbble-hero/800/600 "cover")

> "Loin des yeux, loin du cœur."
> Far from the eyes, far from the heart.

The proverb exists in every language because the pain exists in every culture. Distance erodes presence. Absence, sustained long enough, becomes its own kind of loss — not the sharp grief of death, but the slow fade of connection stretched too thin.

Some distances are chosen. The parent who works across time zones, who commutes through airports instead of subways, who trades bedtime stories for quarterly targets. The sacrifice made for provision, paid in presence.

Some distances are imposed. The military family whose parent serves on foreign soil, whose calls come at strange hours if they come at all, whose reunions are counted in days before the next deployment.

And some distances are stolen. The child taken across a border. The parent left searching. The silence that authorities cannot even quantify.

## What We Do Not Know

![The absence of data](https://picsum.photos/seed/absence-data/800/600)

There is no reliable count of internationally abducted children.

This is not a gap in research. It is a void. Federal agencies track what they can. Family courts record what reaches them. But the nature of abduction is to cross jurisdictions, to exploit the gaps between systems, to disappear into the spaces where no one is counting.

When I began this project, I looked for data. I found estimates that varied by orders of magnitude. I found methodologies that admitted their own inadequacy. I found the confession, repeated across reports, that the true number is unknowable.

This project is not informed by data in the primary sense. It is informed by the absence of data — by the recognition that behind every uncounted case is a parent who cannot hold their child, a child who cannot hear their parent's voice.

What do you design for a problem you cannot measure? You design for the weight of it. You design for what you know must be true even when you cannot prove how often it is true.

## Why Voice

We communicate now through text and image. Messages typed, photos shared, videos streamed. The bandwidth increases; the connection often does not.

Text carries information. It does not carry presence. You can read someone's words without feeling them in the room with you.

Video carries appearance. But appearance can deceive, and video requires attention — you must watch, must be present to the screen, must give the interaction your focus.

![The intimacy of voice](https://picsum.photos/seed/voice-intimacy/800/600)

Voice is different.

Voice carries the body. The breath that shapes words. The rhythm of thought becoming speech. The timbre that no text can capture, the cadence that no video requires you to see.

Research on infant development shows that familiar voices activate comfort responses from birth — before vision is clear, before language is understood, the sound of a parent's voice signals safety. This does not end in childhood. It does not end at all.

> A voice in the dark is a presence. A text in the dark is information.

And voice allows for passivity. You can fall asleep to a voice. You can wake to one. You can carry it with you while your hands do other things, while your eyes look elsewhere. Voice accompanies. It does not demand.

For a child separated from a parent — by distance, by duty, by tragedy — the sound of that parent's voice may be the closest thing to presence possible. Not a photograph to look at. Not a message to read. A voice to be held by.

## The Most Banal Object

Technology announces itself. Screens glow. Devices demand charging. Gadgets require learning, updating, maintaining.

I wanted something that did not announce itself. Something that could sit on a nightstand without drawing attention. Something a child could hold without needing instructions.

A stone.

![Pebbble form](https://picsum.photos/seed/pebbble-form/800/600)

Stones are ancient technology. They fit in hands without being designed to. They carry weight that feels like substance. They last — not for product cycles, but for lifetimes.

Inside the stone: an NFC chip. No battery. No screen. No moving parts. The chip waits, passive, drawing power from the device that reads it only at the moment of reading. It will wait for years. It will wait for decades. The technology is mature, standardized, present in every smartphone made in the last ten years.

The contrast is deliberate. The most advanced communication architecture — decentralized, encrypted, censorship-resistant — wrapped in the most primitive form. The future disguised as the past. Technology that disappears into the timeless.

> What lasts is simple. What matters should last.

A child does not need to understand IPFS or NFC. They need to understand: hold this to the phone, and you hear mama's voice.

## Why Sound Crosses Borders

Content on centralized servers can be blocked. Governments filter. Firewalls exclude. The link that works in one country returns nothing in another.

IPFS — the InterPlanetary File System — does not work this way.

![Decentralized persistence](https://picsum.photos/seed/ipfs-network/800/600)

Content on IPFS is addressed by what it is, not where it is. The audio file exists wherever someone has chosen to host it, and the network finds a path to retrieve it regardless of origin. Block one node, and the content routes through another. Block a domain, and the content has no domain to block.

For families separated by borders — especially borders that do not want them connected — this is not a technical feature. It is the feature. The voice recording made in one country will reach the child in another, regardless of what authorities between them prefer.

And because IPFS addresses content by its cryptographic hash, the content cannot be altered. What was recorded is what will be heard. No interception, no modification, no substitution. The integrity of the voice is guaranteed by mathematics, not trust.

> Walls and firewalls are the same problem. IPFS solves both.

This is what censorship resistance means in practice: a parent's voice, crossing whatever stands between it and their child.

## Two Modes of Presence

Not everyone holds the same device. Not every situation allows the same persistence.

A child with their own phone, in a safe environment, can have the voice available always. Wake up, hold the stone to the phone, hear the voice. Fall asleep to it. Listen again when loneliness arrives at 2 AM. Persistent mode: the audio stays, available whenever needed.

![Owned and unowned](https://picsum.photos/seed/duo-mode/800/600)

But what about the child using a borrowed device? A shared tablet at a shelter? A phone that belongs to someone who should not know what it accesses?

This is where design meets the hardest constraint.

Ephemeral mode: the audio plays once. When the app closes, nothing remains. No history, no cache, no evidence. The stone touched the device, the voice was heard, and then — nothing. Previous secrets remain secret. The interaction leaves no trace for others to find.

> The child in the safest home and the child in the most dangerous situation use the same stone. Only the mode differs.

This is not paranoia. This is the reality of abduction, of custody disputes, of situations where evidence of contact could escalate danger. Design that ignores these cases is design that abandons the people who need it most.

## Solving the Hardest Problem

There is a principle in engineering: if you design for the extreme case, the common case becomes trivial.

![Constraint as clarity](https://picsum.photos/seed/constraint-clarity/800/600)

The hardest version of this problem has the most constraints:

- No reliable internet in the destination country
- Active censorship of cross-border communication
- A device that is not owned, that is monitored, that must show no evidence of use
- A child too young for complex interfaces
- Content that must remain unaltered across hostile infrastructure
- Technology that must last years without maintenance

If you solve this — if a parent's voice can reach an abducted child, safely, secretly, persistently — then every other separated family is already served.

The business traveler who just wants their kid to hear goodnight? Trivial. The military family on deployment? Trivial. The divorced parents sharing custody across distance? Trivial.

> Solving for the impossible makes the merely difficult disappear.

This is why I designed Pebbble for the worst case. Not because most users face abduction — most do not. But because the architecture that serves the worst case serves all cases, while the architecture optimized for common cases fails the moment circumstances darken.

## What a Stone Can Hold

I think about what it means to hold a stone.

The weight of it. The smoothness worn by time or tumbling. The temperature that starts cool and warms in the hand.

Children collect stones. Have always collected them. There is something in the human hand that wants to hold a small, solid thing — a comfort object that requires nothing, offers nothing but presence.

![Holding presence](https://picsum.photos/seed/holding-presence/800/600)

Now imagine that stone holds a voice. Not visibly — there is nothing to see. But when touched to a phone, the voice emerges. A message from someone far away. A story. A lullaby. Just breathing, just presence, just the sound of someone who loves you existing somewhere in the world.

The stone does not run out of battery. It does not require updates. It does not break if dropped, does not become obsolete when the next model releases. It is a stone. It waits.

> Far from the eyes, perhaps. But the voice travels. And where voice can reach, the heart can follow.

## The Work Remaining

Pebbble is not finished. It is in progress — the architecture proven, the principles established, the hardest problems solved in prototype.

What remains is craft. The physical form that feels right in a child's hand. The interface that requires no instruction. The network of nodes that ensures persistence across jurisdictions. The partnerships with organizations who work with separated families, who can distribute stones to those who need them.

![Work remaining](https://picsum.photos/seed/work-remaining/800/600)

And beneath all of this, the question I cannot answer: how many children are waiting, right now, for a voice that cannot reach them?

The data does not exist. The count is unknown. But the weight is real, and the weight is why this matters.

Some projects are built for markets. This one is built for a silence that should not exist.

A stone. A voice. A bridge across whatever separates.

This is Pebbble.

Commit message:

Introduce seed-based color system with lift/depth scales
Extract all CSS variables into theme.css driven by 4 seeds (bg, text,
accent, away). All UI colors derived via color-mix() in oklch. Remove
intermediate aliases (color-muted, color-border, color-surface) in
favor of direct lift-*/depth-* scale usage. Update chart palette to
step accent toward text for better contrast. Marked effect now uses
accent directly. Add theme.css link to index.html. Publish renderer
and charts-graphs test files. Extend project descriptions. Add real
pebbles thumbnail for Pebbble project.

content/projects/pebbble.md, after:

---
title: Pebbble
description: "A stone that carries voices across borders, walls, and the silence of separation. NFC-enabled, battery-free, censorship-resistant. A parent records a message, the stone holds it. A child taps it, the voice plays. Built on IPFS and client-side encryption for the cases no authority can quantify — when distance is not chosen but stolen."
date:
    published: 2025-01-27
thumbnail: /content/media/pebbles.jpg
status: published
category: project
tags:
    - privacy
    - family
    - nfc
    - ipfs
    - voice
    - connection
project:
    status: in-progress
    timeline:
        start: 2024
---

# Pebbble

![A stone holds what screens cannot](https://picsum.photos/seed/pebbble-hero/800/600 "cover")

> "Loin des yeux, loin du cœur."
> Far from the eyes, far from the heart.

The proverb exists in every language because the pain exists in every culture. Distance erodes presence. Absence, sustained long enough, becomes its own kind of loss — not the sharp grief of death, but the slow fade of connection stretched too thin.

Some distances are chosen. The parent who works across time zones, who commutes through airports instead of subways, who trades bedtime stories for quarterly targets. The sacrifice made for provision, paid in presence.

Some distances are imposed. The military family whose parent serves on foreign soil, whose calls come at strange hours if they come at all, whose reunions are counted in days before the next deployment.

And some distances are stolen. The child taken across a border. The parent left searching. The silence that authorities cannot even quantify.

## What We Do Not Know

![The absence of data](https://picsum.photos/seed/absence-data/800/600)

There is no reliable count of internationally abducted children.

This is not a gap in research. It is a void. Federal agencies track what they can. Family courts record what reaches them. But the nature of abduction is to cross jurisdictions, to exploit the gaps between systems, to disappear into the spaces where no one is counting.

When I began this project, I looked for data. I found estimates that varied by orders of magnitude. I found methodologies that admitted their own inadequacy. I found the confession, repeated across reports, that the true number is unknowable.

This project is not informed by data in the primary sense. It is informed by the absence of data — by the recognition that behind every uncounted case is a parent who cannot hold their child, a child who cannot hear their parent's voice.

What do you design for a problem you cannot measure? You design for the weight of it. You design for what you know must be true even when you cannot prove how often it is true.

## Why Voice

We communicate now through text and image. Messages typed, photos shared, videos streamed. The bandwidth increases; the connection often does not.

Text carries information. It does not carry presence. You can read someone's words without feeling them in the room with you.

Video carries appearance. But appearance can deceive, and video requires attention — you must watch, must be present to the screen, must give the interaction your focus.

![The intimacy of voice](https://picsum.photos/seed/voice-intimacy/800/600)

Voice is different.

Voice carries the body. The breath that shapes words. The rhythm of thought becoming speech. The timbre that no text can capture, the cadence that no video requires you to see.

Research on infant development shows that familiar voices activate comfort responses from birth — before vision is clear, before language is understood, the sound of a parent's voice signals safety. This does not end in childhood. It does not end at all.

> A voice in the dark is a presence. A text in the dark is information.

And voice allows for passivity. You can fall asleep to a voice. You can wake to one. You can carry it with you while your hands do other things, while your eyes look elsewhere. Voice accompanies. It does not demand.

For a child separated from a parent — by distance, by duty, by tragedy — the sound of that parent's voice may be the closest thing to presence possible. Not a photograph to look at. Not a message to read. A voice to be held by.

## The Most Banal Object

Technology announces itself. Screens glow. Devices demand charging. Gadgets require learning, updating, maintaining.

I wanted something that did not announce itself. Something that could sit on a nightstand without drawing attention. Something a child could hold without needing instructions.

A stone.

![Pebbble form](https://picsum.photos/seed/pebbble-form/800/600)

Stones are ancient technology. They fit in hands without being designed to. They carry weight that feels like substance. They last — not for product cycles, but for lifetimes.

Inside the stone: an NFC chip. No battery. No screen. No moving parts. The chip waits, passive, drawing power from the device that reads it only at the moment of reading. It will wait for years. It will wait for decades. The technology is mature, standardized, present in every smartphone made in the last ten years.

The contrast is deliberate. The most advanced communication architecture — decentralized, encrypted, censorship-resistant — wrapped in the most primitive form. The future disguised as the past. Technology that disappears into the timeless.

> What lasts is simple. What matters should last.

A child does not need to understand IPFS or NFC. They need to understand: hold this to the phone, and you hear mama's voice.

## Why Sound Crosses Borders

Content on centralized servers can be blocked. Governments filter. Firewalls exclude. The link that works in one country returns nothing in another.

IPFS — the InterPlanetary File System — does not work this way.

![Decentralized persistence](https://picsum.photos/seed/ipfs-network/800/600)

Content on IPFS is addressed by what it is, not where it is. The audio file exists wherever someone has chosen to host it, and the network finds a path to retrieve it regardless of origin. Block one node, and the content routes through another. Block a domain, and the content has no domain to block.

For families separated by borders — especially borders that do not want them connected — this is not a technical feature. It is the feature. The voice recording made in one country will reach the child in another, regardless of what authorities between them prefer.

And because IPFS addresses content by its cryptographic hash, the content cannot be altered. What was recorded is what will be heard. No interception, no modification, no substitution. The integrity of the voice is guaranteed by mathematics, not trust.

> Walls and firewalls are the same problem. IPFS solves both.

This is what censorship resistance means in practice: a parent's voice, crossing whatever stands between it and their child.

## Two Modes of Presence

Not everyone holds the same device. Not every situation allows the same persistence.

A child with their own phone, in a safe environment, can have the voice available always. Wake up, hold the stone to the phone, hear the voice. Fall asleep to it. Listen again when loneliness arrives at 2 AM. Persistent mode: the audio stays, available whenever needed.

![Owned and unowned](https://picsum.photos/seed/duo-mode/800/600)

But what about the child using a borrowed device? A shared tablet at a shelter? A phone that belongs to someone who should not know what it accesses?

This is where design meets the hardest constraint.

Ephemeral mode: the audio plays once. When the app closes, nothing remains. No history, no cache, no evidence. The stone touched the device, the voice was heard, and then — nothing. Previous secrets remain secret. The interaction leaves no trace for others to find.

> The child in the safest home and the child in the most dangerous situation use the same stone. Only the mode differs.

This is not paranoia. This is the reality of abduction, of custody disputes, of situations where evidence of contact could escalate danger. Design that ignores these cases is design that abandons the people who need it most.

## Solving the Hardest Problem

There is a principle in engineering: if you design for the extreme case, the common case becomes trivial.

![Constraint as clarity](https://picsum.photos/seed/constraint-clarity/800/600)

The hardest version of this problem has the most constraints:

- No reliable internet in the destination country
- Active censorship of cross-border communication
- A device that is not owned, that is monitored, that must show no evidence of use
- A child too young for complex interfaces
- Content that must remain unaltered across hostile infrastructure
- Technology that must last years without maintenance

If you solve this — if a parent's voice can reach an abducted child, safely, secretly, persistently — then every other separated family is already served.

The business traveler who just wants their kid to hear goodnight? Trivial. The military family on deployment? Trivial. The divorced parents sharing custody across distance? Trivial.

> Solving for the impossible makes the merely difficult disappear.

This is why I designed Pebbble for the worst case. Not because most users face abduction — most do not. But because the architecture that serves the worst case serves all cases, while the architecture optimized for common cases fails the moment circumstances darken.

## What a Stone Can Hold

I think about what it means to hold a stone.

The weight of it. The smoothness worn by time or tumbling. The temperature that starts cool and warms in the hand.

Children collect stones. Have always collected them. There is something in the human hand that wants to hold a small, solid thing — a comfort object that requires nothing, offers nothing but presence.

![Holding presence](https://picsum.photos/seed/holding-presence/800/600)

Now imagine that stone holds a voice. Not visibly — there is nothing to see. But when touched to a phone, the voice emerges. A message from someone far away. A story. A lullaby. Just breathing, just presence, just the sound of someone who loves you existing somewhere in the world.

The stone does not run out of battery. It does not require updates. It does not break if dropped, does not become obsolete when the next model releases. It is a stone. It waits.

> Far from the eyes, perhaps. But the voice travels. And where voice can reach, the heart can follow.

## The Work Remaining

Pebbble is not finished. It is in progress — the architecture proven, the principles established, the hardest problems solved in prototype.

What remains is craft. The physical form that feels right in a child's hand. The interface that requires no instruction. The network of nodes that ensures persistence across jurisdictions. The partnerships with organizations who work with separated families, who can distribute stones to those who need them.

![Work remaining](https://picsum.photos/seed/work-remaining/800/600)

And beneath all of this, the question I cannot answer: how many children are waiting, right now, for a voice that cannot reach them?

The data does not exist. The count is unknown. But the weight is real, and the weight is why this matters.

Some projects are built for markets. This one is built for a silence that should not exist.

A stone. A voice. A bridge across whatever separates.

This is Pebbble.
